# Ways to achieve Continuous Deployment

---

## Pull vs. push deployment

Earlier in the course we have looked at various ways to achieve pull deployments. From now on we will focus solely on push deployments.

---

## Building Docker images on the server

One option is to pull the Github repository on the server, build the Docker images there and run them.

But as a continuation from the `continuous_delivery` path, we assume that the Docker images have already been built and are available to us.

---

## Push deployments with Github Actions and pre-built Docker images

Excluding CI/CD systems, there are two ways to solve this with Github Actions:

1. SSH from the runner into your server and execute commands remotely.

2. Treat your server as a Github Actions runner which allows you execute commands on it. 

This example does it with the first approach.

---

## Your deployment server as a Github Actions runner

For the second approach there are some incomplete tutorial for inspiration but feel free to skip this part:

[Deploying with a self-hosted runner.](./tutorials/self_hosted_runner.md)

---

## Deploying with Github Actions over SSH

We will focus specifically on how to achieve Continuous Deployment for Docker images.

1. Use Github Action to create a script that pulls the latest Docker images and reruns them. Let the runner transfer the script to the server. Then execute the script remotely.

2. Use Github Action to run commands on the server. It would contain the same commands as in the script from above.

This example does it with the second approach.

---

## Deploying nginx

The thing is that we have a config file [nginx.conf](../src/network/nginx.conf) that specifies which port the application runs on and later on we want to specify SSL.

There are two approaches for how to run nginx with Docker. 

1. Create a custom nginx image with the config file baked in. Then we only have to run the image.

2. Get the nginx image from DockerHub and mount the config file as a volume when running the container.

This example does it with the first approach. The second approach is just as valid. 

For the second approach it can be done like this (after transfering the `nginx.conf` file to the server):

```bash
$ docker run -d -p 80:80 -v /path/to/nginx.conf:/etc/nginx/nginx.conf nginx
```

---

## Summary

This branch builds docker images based on the setup in the [docker-compose.prod.yml](../src/docker-compose.prod.yml) file.

Once the `continuous_delivery` workflow has finished building the images, the `continuous_deployment` workflow commences.

It logs on to the server over SSH. On the server it pulls the latest images and reruns them.