# The Continuous Deployment Workflow

This will walk you through the workflow file [continuous_deployment.yaml](../.github/workflows/continuous_deployment.yml) in the `.github/workflows` directory.

---

## Triggering the Deployment Workflow

The deployment workflow should most likely not run on push but instead be dependent on other workflows. This can be achieved like this:

```yaml
on:
  workflow_run:
    workflows: ["<name_of_workflow>"]
    types:
      - completed
```

In this branch it looks like this:

```yaml
on:
  workflow_run:
    workflows: ["Docker Build and Push"]
    types:
      - completed
    branches:
      - continuous_deployment
```

This is is because the workflow `continuous_delivery.yml` has been defined in this branch but also on the `continuous_delivery` branch. But triggering it from the `continuous_delivery` branch might result in a broken deployment if no server is running and has been configured. 

I named the `continuous_delivery` workflow file `Docker Build and Push` instead of the obvious choice, `continuous_deployment`, to show that it is not the filename but the workflow name that must be declared.

---

## Adding the SSH key to the runner to allow access to the server

The private SSH key is pasted from Github Secrets into a file on the runner and given appropriate permissions:

```yaml
    steps:
      - name: Add SSH key to runner
        run: |
          mkdir -p ~/.ssh/
          echo "$SSH_PRIVATE_KEY" > ~/.ssh/ssh_key
          chmod 600 ~/.ssh/ssh_key
        env:
          SSH_PRIVATE_KEY: ${{ secrets.SSH_PRIVATE_KEY }}
```

---

## Network

While the network has been defined correctly in the `docker-compose.prod.yml` file, this information does not carry over when building the individual images. 

To create the network on the server this is done:

```yaml
    docker network create my_network || true
```

The `|| true` is there to prevent the workflow from failing if the network already exists.

The network is then passed via the `--network` flag when running the containers:

```yaml
    docker run -d --env-file .env --network my_network -p 8080:8080 --name who-knows-inc/whoknows_variations_server:latest

    docker run -d --network my_network -p 80:80 --name whoknows_nginx who-knows-inc/whoknows_variations_nginx:latest
```

Since they have both been given `my_network` as the network, they will be able to communicate with each other.

