# Environment Variables

This shows how we can transfer environment variables to the server without compromising with security. 

The goal is to have one local `.env` file and one for the server. They should contain a greeting message that will be displayed on the newly created route `/envgreeting`.

Our goal is to observe how we see different greetings locally compared to the server.

---

## Prerequisites to run it locally

You are not required to run it locally to use this example or deploy successfully. After all, the goal is that the deployed version will use a different environment file.

But if you want to run it locally, you must copy [.env.sample](../src/backend/.env.sample) to `.env`. 

The `GREETING` variable has already been set in the example as it isn't a secret but environment specific.

In [app.py](../src/backend/app.py) you can find this new section:

```python
################################################################################
# Environment Variables
################################################################################

from dotenv import load_dotenv
load_dotenv()

@app.route('/envgreeting')
def home():
    return os.getenv('GREETING')
```

**Note** that the dependency `python-dotenv` has been added to `requirements.txt`. Docker will make sure to read install it, but if you want to replicate this example then remember to add the dependency to your project.

---

## Running it locally

After having created the `.env` file, you can run the server in the `src` folder with:

```bash
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build
```

You should see the greeting on: `http://localhost:8080/envgreeting`.

---

## The difference between local and deployed

The [.dockerignore](../src/backend/.dockerignore) file has been updated to ignore the `.env` file. This is to prevent it from being added to the images put on Github Container Registry.

The `.docker-compose.dev.yml` file then explicitly adds the `.env` file to the development container with the following addition:

```yaml
    env_file:
      - backend/.env
```

This evades the `.dockerignore` file.

Another approach would be to have two sets of `.dockerignore` files. Then add a line like this for `docker-compse.dev.yml` for example:

```yaml
    args:
      - dockerignore_file=.dockerignore.dev
```

And in the `Dockerfile.dev` add the corresponding `.dockerignore.dev` file as defined in the `ARG`:

```dockerfile
COPY $dockerignore_file .dockerignore
```

---

## The deployed setup

In the `continuous_deployment` workflow file the `GREETING` has been hardcoded to better illustrate the example:

```yaml
      - name: Create .env file
        run: |
          echo "GREETING=Hello from Github Action" >> .env
```

It should've been set as a Github Secret (preferably prefixed with `ENV_` or similiar) and could've been part of the `setup.sh` script, but by doing it this way, the setup process isn't hidden.

---

## Transfering the .env file to the server

After the `.env` file has been created, it is transferred to the server with secure copy (scp):

```yaml
      - name: Transfer .env file to server
        run: |
          scp -i ~/.ssh/ssh_key -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no .env $SSH_USER@$SSH_HOST:.env
        env:
          SSH_USER: ${{ secrets.SSH_USER }}
          SSH_HOST: ${{ secrets.SSH_HOST }}
```

---

## Starting the container with the environment variable

In the last step of the workflow file we see:

```yaml
        docker run -d --env-file .env --network my_network -p 8080:8080 --name whoknows_flask who-knows-inc/whoknows_variations_server:latest
```

By defining the `--env-file` flag we can point to a file on the server and it will load the environment variables from there.

---

## Success criteria

After a successful deployment you should be able to see the greeting message `Hello from Github Action` when accessing the `/envgreeting` route in your browser.